build/README.md, before:

Overview
--------

Scripts and files in this directory describe how to build CIPD packages from
the source code in infra.git repo.

There are two flavors of packages:

* Packages with executables compiled from Go code.
* Single giant package with all python code and archived virtual environment
  needed to run it.


Package definition
------------------

A package is defined in a YAML file that is parsed by `build.py` script before
being passed to the CIPD client.

The package file has the following structure:

```yaml
# Name of the package in CIPD repository.
package: infra/example/package/${platform}

# Human readable description of the package.
description: Example package

# Set to true to exclude the package from the build.
disabled: false

# Set to false to not update the 'latest' CIPD ref.
update_latest_ref: false

# Optional filter with a list of CIPD platform suffixes for which to build this
# package. If not specified, will be built only for the host platform. Note that
# this is a filter: whenever build.py script is invoked with some GOOS and
# GOARCH, it looks at this list to decide whether to build the package or not.
# The list of platforms we attempt to build for is thus outside of build.py
# control: it is specified by whoever calls build.py (see infra_continuous.py
# recipe).
platforms:
  - android-amd64
  - android-armv6l
  - linux-386
  - linux-amd64
  - linux-arm64
  - linux-armv6l
  - linux-mipsle
  - linux-mips64
  - linux-mips64le
  - linux-ppc64
  - linux-ppc64le
  - linux-s390x
  - mac-amd64
  - windows-386
  - windows-amd64
  - windows-arm64

# Optional list of go packages to 'go install' before zipping this package.
go_packages:
  - go.chromium.org/luci/cipd/client/cmd/cipd
  - ...

# Environment variables to set when building go code. Only CGO_ENABLED is
# recognized currently.
go_build_environ:
  # If given, overrides CGO_ENABLED env var when building a **native** variant
  # of this package (i.e. when not cross-compiling).
  #
  # Note that it is also possible to specify this on per-target GOOS basis, by
  # using a dictionary as a value, e.g. {'darwin': 1, 'windows': 0, 'linux': 0}.
  #
  # When cross-compiling CGO_ENABLED is taken from the host environment as
  # usual, defaulting to 0.
  CGO_ENABLED: 0

  # If given, attach the flags to the go build command.
  #
  # Note that it is also possible to specify this on per-target GOOS basis, by
  # using a dictionary as a value, e.g. {'darwin': 1, 'windows': 0, 'linux': 0}.
  #
  # The flag will only be attached to the go build command if:
  #   * the flag is given;
  #   * it is supported on the platform:
  #     * As of Aug 2022, it is only supported on
  #       * linux/amd64
  #       * freebsd/amd64
  #       * darwin/amd64
  #       * windows/amd64
  #       * linux/ppc64le
  #       * linux/arm64 (only for 48-bit VMA)
  #   * CGO is enabled.
  race: 0

# Path to the root of the package source files on the system we're building
# the package from. Can be absolute or relative to the path of the *.yaml
# file itself.
root: ../..

# Copies apply after the build, but before creating the package. `dst` files
# will automatically be added as data 'file' entries.
#
# generate_bat_shim works as it does for data 'file' entries below, and is
# optional. platforms optionally specifies which platforms to target. If
# unspecified, targets all platforms.
copies:
  - src: some_built_file
    dst: some_other_file
    generate_bat_shim: true
    platforms:
    - windows-386
    - windows-amd64
    - windows-arm64

# Symlinks apply after the build, but before creating the package. `dst` links
# are automatically be added as data 'file' entries. These will only run when
# targetting posix platforms (mac, linux), and are otherwise ignored.
posix_symlinks:
  - src: some_file
    dst: some_link_name

# CIPD packages may be exported into the build directory by embedding an
# ensure file (https://pkg.go.dev/go.chromium.org/luci/cipd/client/cipd/ensure).
# In this specification, ${target_platform} may be used for the cross-compile
# target, where as ${platform} refers to the host platform.
# Make sure to also include this path in `data` below.
cipd_export: |
  @Subdir pkg/path
  cipd/pkg/path/${target_platform} version:2.0

data:
  # 'dir' section adds a subdirectory of 'root' to the package. In this case
  # it will scan directory <yaml_path>/../../a/b/c and put files into a/b/c
  # directory of the package.
  - dir: a/b/c
    # A list of regular expressions for files to exclude from the package.
    # Syntax is defined at http://golang.org/pkg/regexp/syntax/. Each expression
    # is implicitly wrapped into ^...$. The tests are applied to paths relative
    # to 'dir', e.g. 'bin/active' regexp matches only single file
    # <yaml_path>/../../a/b/c/bin/active.
    exclude:
      - bin/activate
      - .*\.pyc

  # 'file' section adds a single file to the package.
  - file: run.py

  # Exe files can also be augmented with *.bat shims, residing in same dir.
  # Kicks in only when the package is targeting Windows.
  - file: cipd.exe
    generate_bat_shim: true

  # Only uploading the package when specified files in the cipd package changed.
  # It will generate on-change tags and search if there is any package with
  # same set of tags. If no such package available, package will be uploaded. In
  # other case only tag will be updated on the package with same set of tags.
  - file: vpython
    upload_on_change: true

  # Include the CIPD package installed above.
  - dir: pkg/path
```

Following features of the package definition are implemented by `build.py`
(basically anything related to the process of building the code and preparing
all necessary files for packaging):

* `platforms`
* `go_build_environ`
* `go_packages`
* `copies`
* `posix_symlinks`
* `generate_bat_shim`
* `upload_on_change`


Strings interpolation
---------------------

Any string in package definition can reference a variable via ${var_name}, for
example:

```yaml
package: infra/tools/cipd/${platform}
```

Available variables are defined in [build.py](build.py) in `get_package_vars`:

* `${exe_suffix}` is `.exe` on Windows and empty string on other platforms. If
  cross-compiling to Windows, it is also set to `.exe` regardless of the host
  platform.
* `${platform}` defines where build.py is running (if not cross-compiling) or
  what the target platform is (when cross-compiling), as `(flavor)-(bitness)`
  string. It is suitable for packages that do not depend much on the exact
  version of the OS, for example packages with statically linked binaries.
  Examples of possible combinations:
    * linux-amd64
    * linux-386
    * linux-armv6l
    * mac-amd64
    * mac-386
    * windows-amd64
    * windows-arm64
    * windows-386
    * ...

See [packages](packages/) for examples of package definitions.


Build script
------------

[build.py](build.py) script does the following:

* Ensures python virtual environment directory (ENV) is up to date.
* Rebuilds all necessary Go code from scratch and installs binaries into
  `GOBIN`.
* Enumerates `packages/` directory for package definition files, builds and
  (if `--upload` option is passed) uploads CIPD packages to
  [the repository](https://chrome-infra-packages.appspot.com).
* Stores built packages into `out/` (as `*.cipd` files).

Package definition files can assume that Go infra code is built and all
artifacts are installed in `GOBIN` (which is go/bin).

You can also pass one or more *.yaml file names to build only specific packages:

    build.py infra_python cipd_client


Verifying a package
-------------------

To install a built package locally use cipd client binary (it is built by
build.py as well). For example, to rebuild and install infra_python.cipd into
./install_dir, run:

    cd infra.git/
    rm -rf install_dir
    ./build/build.py infra_python
    ./go/bin/cipd pkg-deploy -root=install_dir build/out/infra_python.cipd
    cd install_dir


Package tests
-------------

test_package.py script can be used to run simple package integrity tests to
verify a built package looks good after deploy.

For each *.yaml in packages/* there can be corresponding *.py file in tests/*
that is invoked by test_package.py to check that deployed package looks good.

Basically test_package.py does the following:

* Installs a CIPD file to a local directory or update currently installed
  version there (if `--work-dir` is used).
* Runs `python test/<name>.py` with cwd == installation directory.
* If test returns 0, considers it success, otherwise - failure.

Thus to test that infra_python.cipd package works, one can do the following:

    ./build/build.py infra_python
    ./build/test_packages.py infra_python

test_packages.py is used on CI builders to verify packages look good before
uploading them.


Cross compilation of Go code
----------------------------

`build.py` script recognizes `GOOS` and `GOARCH` environment variables used to
specify a target platform when cross-compiling Go code. When it detects them, it
builds only Go packages that have the target CIPD platform specified in the
`platforms` list in the package definition YAML. It also changes the meaning of
`${platform}` and `${exe_suffix}` to match the values for the target platform.

Built packages have `+${platform}` suffix in file names and coexist with native
package in build output directory. When uploading packages (via `build.py
--no-rebuild --upload`), `GOOS` and `GOARCH` are used to figure out what flavor
of built packages to pick (what `+${platform}` to search for).

Cross compiling toolset doesn't include C compiler, so the binaries are built in
`CGO_ENABLED=0` mode, meaning some stdlib functions that depend on libc are not
working or working differently compared to natively built executables.

Commit message:

[build] Make CGO_ENABLED set to 0 by default.
Cgo is causing troubles on Linux by linking to glibc. It is
not really needed by most packages. Packages that really want
it can opt-in by setting e.g.

```
go_build_environ:
  CGO_ENABLED:
    darwin: 1
```

Also don't treat cross-compiling as special anymore. For all
existing packages, we never set "CGO_ENABLED: 1" and cross-compile
at the same time. Now that we set "CGO_ENABLED: 0" by default,
cross-compiling is handled by this default as well.

R=bryner@google.com

Change-Id: I3126cfcd53e2784814d7d75bdab266a87b689f9b
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/infra/infra/+/5161951
Commit-Queue: Vadim Shtayura <vadimsh@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Brian Ryner <bryner@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Brian Ryner <bryner@google.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/main@{#62067}

build/README.md, after:

Overview
--------

Scripts and files in this directory describe how to build CIPD packages from
the source code in infra.git repo.

There are two flavors of packages:

* Packages with executables compiled from Go code.
* Single giant package with all python code and archived virtual environment
  needed to run it.


Package definition
------------------

A package is defined in a YAML file that is parsed by `build.py` script before
being passed to the CIPD client.

The package file has the following structure:

```yaml
# Name of the package in CIPD repository.
package: infra/example/package/${platform}

# Human readable description of the package.
description: Example package

# Set to true to exclude the package from the build.
disabled: false

# Set to false to not update the 'latest' CIPD ref.
update_latest_ref: false

# Optional filter with a list of CIPD platform suffixes for which to build this
# package. If not specified, will be built only for the host platform. Note that
# this is a filter: whenever build.py script is invoked with some GOOS and
# GOARCH, it looks at this list to decide whether to build the package or not.
# The list of platforms we attempt to build for is thus outside of build.py
# control: it is specified by whoever calls build.py (see infra_continuous.py
# recipe).
platforms:
  - android-amd64
  - android-armv6l
  - linux-386
  - linux-amd64
  - linux-arm64
  - linux-armv6l
  - linux-mipsle
  - linux-mips64
  - linux-mips64le
  - linux-ppc64
  - linux-ppc64le
  - linux-s390x
  - mac-amd64
  - windows-386
  - windows-amd64
  - windows-arm64

# Optional list of go packages to 'go install' before zipping this package.
go_packages:
  - go.chromium.org/luci/cipd/client/cmd/cipd
  - ...

# Environment variables to set when building go code. Only CGO_ENABLED is
# recognized currently.
go_build_environ:
  # If given, sets CGO_ENABLED env var to this value. Defaults to 0 if missing
  # (i.e. cgo is disabled by default).
  #
  # Note that it is also possible to specify this on per-target GOOS basis, by
  # using a dictionary as a value, e.g. {'darwin': 1, 'windows': 0, 'linux': 0}.
  CGO_ENABLED:
    darwin: 1

  # If given, attach the flags to the go build command.
  #
  # Note that it is also possible to specify this on per-target GOOS basis, by
  # using a dictionary as a value, e.g. {'darwin': 1, 'windows': 0, 'linux': 0}.
  #
  # The flag will only be attached to the go build command if:
  #   * the flag is given;
  #   * it is supported on the platform:
  #     * As of Aug 2022, it is only supported on
  #       * linux/amd64
  #       * freebsd/amd64
  #       * darwin/amd64
  #       * windows/amd64
  #       * linux/ppc64le
  #       * linux/arm64 (only for 48-bit VMA)
  #   * CGO is enabled.
  race: 0

# Path to the root of the package source files on the system we're building
# the package from. Can be absolute or relative to the path of the *.yaml
# file itself.
root: ../..

# Copies apply after the build, but before creating the package. `dst` files
# will automatically be added as data 'file' entries.
#
# generate_bat_shim works as it does for data 'file' entries below, and is
# optional. platforms optionally specifies which platforms to target. If
# unspecified, targets all platforms.
copies:
  - src: some_built_file
    dst: some_other_file
    generate_bat_shim: true
    platforms:
    - windows-386
    - windows-amd64
    - windows-arm64

# Symlinks apply after the build, but before creating the package. `dst` links
# are automatically be added as data 'file' entries. These will only run when
# targetting posix platforms (mac, linux), and are otherwise ignored.
posix_symlinks:
  - src: some_file
    dst: some_link_name

# CIPD packages may be exported into the build directory by embedding an
# ensure file (https://pkg.go.dev/go.chromium.org/luci/cipd/client/cipd/ensure).
# In this specification, ${target_platform} may be used for the cross-compile
# target, where as ${platform} refers to the host platform.
# Make sure to also include this path in `data` below.
cipd_export: |
  @Subdir pkg/path
  cipd/pkg/path/${target_platform} version:2.0

data:
  # 'dir' section adds a subdirectory of 'root' to the package. In this case
  # it will scan directory <yaml_path>/../../a/b/c and put files into a/b/c
  # directory of the package.
  - dir: a/b/c
    # A list of regular expressions for files to exclude from the package.
    # Syntax is defined at http://golang.org/pkg/regexp/syntax/. Each expression
    # is implicitly wrapped into ^...$. The tests are applied to paths relative
    # to 'dir', e.g. 'bin/active' regexp matches only single file
    # <yaml_path>/../../a/b/c/bin/active.
    exclude:
      - bin/activate
      - .*\.pyc

  # 'file' section adds a single file to the package.
  - file: run.py

  # Exe files can also be augmented with *.bat shims, residing in same dir.
  # Kicks in only when the package is targeting Windows.
  - file: cipd.exe
    generate_bat_shim: true

  # Only uploading the package when specified files in the cipd package changed.
  # It will generate on-change tags and search if there is any package with
  # same set of tags. If no such package available, package will be uploaded. In
  # other case only tag will be updated on the package with same set of tags.
  - file: vpython
    upload_on_change: true

  # Include the CIPD package installed above.
  - dir: pkg/path
```

Following features of the package definition are implemented by `build.py`
(basically anything related to the process of building the code and preparing
all necessary files for packaging):

* `platforms`
* `go_build_environ`
* `go_packages`
* `copies`
* `posix_symlinks`
* `generate_bat_shim`
* `upload_on_change`


Strings interpolation
---------------------

Any string in package definition can reference a variable via ${var_name}, for
example:

```yaml
package: infra/tools/cipd/${platform}
```

Available variables are defined in [build.py](build.py) in `get_package_vars`:

* `${exe_suffix}` is `.exe` on Windows and empty string on other platforms. If
  cross-compiling to Windows, it is also set to `.exe` regardless of the host
  platform.
* `${platform}` defines where build.py is running (if not cross-compiling) or
  what the target platform is (when cross-compiling), as `(flavor)-(bitness)`
  string. It is suitable for packages that do not depend much on the exact
  version of the OS, for example packages with statically linked binaries.
  Examples of possible combinations:
    * linux-amd64
    * linux-386
    * linux-armv6l
    * mac-amd64
    * mac-386
    * windows-amd64
    * windows-arm64
    * windows-386
    * ...

See [packages](packages/) for examples of package definitions.


Build script
------------

[build.py](build.py) script does the following:

* Ensures python virtual environment directory (ENV) is up to date.
* Rebuilds all necessary Go code from scratch and installs binaries into
  `GOBIN`.
* Enumerates `packages/` directory for package definition files, builds and
  (if `--upload` option is passed) uploads CIPD packages to
  [the repository](https://chrome-infra-packages.appspot.com).
* Stores built packages into `out/` (as `*.cipd` files).

Package definition files can assume that Go infra code is built and all
artifacts are installed in `GOBIN` (which is go/bin).

You can also pass one or more *.yaml file names to build only specific packages:

    build.py infra_python cipd_client


Verifying a package
-------------------

To install a built package locally use cipd client binary (it is built by
build.py as well). For example, to rebuild and install infra_python.cipd into
./install_dir, run:

    cd infra.git/
    rm -rf install_dir
    ./build/build.py infra_python
    ./go/bin/cipd pkg-deploy -root=install_dir build/out/infra_python.cipd
    cd install_dir


Package tests
-------------

test_package.py script can be used to run simple package integrity tests to
verify a built package looks good after deploy.

For each *.yaml in packages/* there can be corresponding *.py file in tests/*
that is invoked by test_package.py to check that deployed package looks good.

Basically test_package.py does the following:

* Installs a CIPD file to a local directory or update currently installed
  version there (if `--work-dir` is used).
* Runs `python test/<name>.py` with cwd == installation directory.
* If test returns 0, considers it success, otherwise - failure.

Thus to test that infra_python.cipd package works, one can do the following:

    ./build/build.py infra_python
    ./build/test_packages.py infra_python

test_packages.py is used on CI builders to verify packages look good before
uploading them.


Cross compilation of Go code
----------------------------

`build.py` script recognizes `GOOS` and `GOARCH` environment variables used to
specify a target platform when cross-compiling Go code. When it detects them, it
builds only Go packages that have the target CIPD platform specified in the
`platforms` list in the package definition YAML. It also changes the meaning of
`${platform}` and `${exe_suffix}` to match the values for the target platform.

Built packages have `+${platform}` suffix in file names and coexist with native
package in build output directory. When uploading packages (via `build.py
--no-rebuild --upload`), `GOOS` and `GOARCH` are used to figure out what flavor
of built packages to pick (what `+${platform}` to search for).

Cross compiling toolset doesn't include C compiler, so the binaries are built in
`CGO_ENABLED=0` mode, meaning some stdlib functions that depend on libc are not
working or working differently compared to natively built executables.
